
dyn is a new R package (www.r-project.org) that
facilitates dynamic regression, i.e.  regression of time
series where the model specification may include lags and
diffs and the data may include missing values.
It is a lightweight package that has no facilities
of its own but leverages off the various time series and
regression functions in R to make it easier to use them
together:

Its features include:

- many regression functions.  It can be used with lm, glm,
  loess, rq, randomForest, lqs, rlm and any other regression 
  functions.

- many time series classes. It can be used with ts, zooreg,
  zoo, its, and irts time series classes.  

- missing values.  Time series may have missing values including
  internal missing values.  Both na.omit and na.exclude are
  supported.  

- good citizen.  It does not modify any standard R functions.
  It simply adds new dyn methods to the standard R generics:
  model.frame, resid, fitted, predict, update and anova and $.

- ease of use.  dyn enables one to use the same regression
  functions (lm, glm, etc.) using the same syntax one has
  always used.  Just preface the regression function with dyn$
  and it is transformed into a regression function that can
  handle time series:

   dyn$lm( y ~ x + lag(x) + diff(w) )     # lm
   dyn$loess( y ~ x + lag(x) + diff(w) )  # loess

- modular.  dyn can be used with any regression function that
  uses model.frame and is written in the style of lm.  Additional
  classes can be added to dyn simply by adding new methods. dyn
  is modular which means that it does not itself have to be changed.

- documentation.  It includes a help page and six demos.

   ?dyn           # help file
   demo()         # look under dyn for list of demos
   demo("dyn-rq") # runs indicated dyn demo

The package is available on CRAN now. Comments/questions welcome.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Whit Armstrong for introducing me to the lm
internals, Matthieu Cornec for independent testing and
comments which greatly improved the package and Achim
Zeileis for numerous discussions.

